---
layout: bibtex
name: hollt_ksomics_2017
kind: poster
author: T. Höllt, V. van Unen, N. Pezzotti, N. Li, M. Reinders, E. Eisemann, F. Koning, A. Vilanova, and B. Lelieveldt
title: Interactive Visual Analysis of Mass Cytometry Data by Hierarchical Stochastic Neighbor Embedding Reveals Rare Cell Types
journal: Poster Presentation, Keystone Symposia on Molecular and Cellular Biology; Single Cell Omics, Stockholm, Swe
page_start: 
page_end: 
volume: 
issue: 
year: 2017
doi: 
pdf: assets/papers/hollt_ksomics_2017/ksomics17_interactive_visual_analysis_of_mass_cytometry_data_by_hierarchical_stochastic_neighbor_embedding.pdf
poster: assets/papers/hollt_ksomics_2017/ksomics17_interactive_visual_analysis_of_mass_cytometry_data_by_hierarchical_stochastic_neighbor_embedding_poster.pdf
video: 
slides: 
fastforward: 
---
Mass cytometry allows high-resolution dissection of the cellular composition of the immune system. However, the high-dimensionality, large size, and non-linear structure of the data poses considerable challenges for data analysis.
We introduce Hierarchical Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (HSNE) for single-cell analysis, a computational approach that constructs a hierarchy of non-linear similarities, allowing the analysis of millions of cells via different levels of detail up to single-cell resolution within minutes. We integrated HSNE into the Cytosplore +HSNE framework to facilitate interactive exploration and analysis of the hierarchy by a set of corresponding two-dimensional plots with stepwise increase in detail up to the single-cell level. This divide and conquer approach minimizes computation time and, thereby, allows efficient and interactive visualization.
We validated the discovery potential of Cytosplore+HSNE by re-analyzing a recent study on gastrointestinal disorders as well as two other publicly available mass cytometry datasets. We found that Cytosplore+HSNE efficiently identifies both abundant and rare cell populations, without resorting to downsampling of the data, including rare cell populations that were missed in a previous analysis due to downsampling. Taken together, Cytosplore +HSNE offers unprecedented possibilities for visual exploration and analysis of millions of cells measured in mass cytometry studies.