---
layout: bibtex
name: pezzotti_tvcg_2017
kind: journal
author: N. Pezzotti, B.P.F. Lelieveldt, L. van der Maaten, T. Höllt, E. Eisemann, and A. Vilanova
title: Approximated and User Steerable tSNE for Progressive Visual Analytics
journal: IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics
page_start: 1739
page_end: 1752
volume: 23
issue: 7
year: 2017
doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2016.2570755
pdf: assets/papers/pezzotti_tvcg_2017/tvcg16_approximated_and_user_steerable_tSNE_for_progressive_visual_analytics.pdf
poster:
video: 
slides: 
fastforward: 
---
Progressive Visual Analytics aims at improving the interactivity in existing analytics techniques by means of visualization as well as interaction with intermediate results. One key method for data analysis is dimensionality reduction, for example, to produce 2D embeddings that can be visualized and analyzed efficiently. t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (tSNE) is a well-suited technique for the visualization of several high-dimensional data. tSNE can create meaningful intermediate results but suffers from a slow initialization that constrains its application in Progressive Visual Analytics. We introduce a controllable tSNE approximation (A-tSNE), which trades off speed and accuracy, to enable interactive data exploration. We offer real-time visualization techniques, including a density-based solution and a Magic Lens to inspect the degree of approximation. With this feedback, the user can decide on local refinements and steer the approximation level during the analysis. We demonstrate our technique with several datasets, in a real-world research scenario and for the real-time analysis of high-dimensional streams to illustrate its effectiveness for interactive data analysis.